how do you make a film that teaches
people about
science I think it's an important
question and I think it's a timely
question given that while video is
exploding everywhere on the internet and
there are new initiatives popping up
like Ted Ed now this question how do you
make a film that effectively teaches
someone something about science that was
the topic of my
PhD so I'd like to tell you what I found
out
I went to the University of Sydney and I
took all the firste physics students and
I tried to teach them about the basic
laws of motion Newton's first and second
laws so I sent them away to their homes
and I asked them to go online and sit a
26 question multiple choice uh test
here's a sample question just so you get
a feel for what I was asking them
imagine a basketball player shooting
from the free throw line after he
releases the ball the forces on the ball
are a a upwards and constant B upwards
and decreasing C downwards and constant
D downwards and decreasing or E tangent
to the path of the
ball I want you to take a minute and
think
about think about what you would answer
and think about think about what you
think other people might answer okay so
then we would get the students to rate
their confidence in their answers how
confident are you that this is correct
I should mention that that is not the
exact lyit scale that I gave them but
it's you know get the idea across okay
and then I would randomly assign these
students uh to watch one of several
videos about Newton's first and second
laws they lasted about 8 to 10 minutes
so in a standard uh Exposition video I
would say something like this to them
well we would state Newton's laws and
then we would apply it to a real world
example like a juggler I can't juggle so
I've got one ball anyway um so we would
say something like while ball is in the
air there's only one force acting on it
throughout its flight it's a force of
gravity it's constant and it's downwards
we'd actually animate a little arrow on
the ball as it goes up and down in slow
motion okay so obviously the answer was
C whereas most people usually pick B to
that question okay so after watching
this video the students would sit the
exact same 26 question test I wanted to
see have they changed their minds about
any of those questions and I also
interviewed a couple students to see
what did they think about the video did
they like it did they think that they
learned something from it and here's
what they told me well they said Derek
that was a great video it was clear
these are the most common things they
said it was clear it was concise it was
easy to
understand that's good and then I looked
at their confidence scores how did that
change on average well on average it
improved by about a point okay
everything's looking good but how much
did they
learn well on the preest they scored
scored six out of
26 and I can tell you there were
basically direct answers to at least 14
of those questions but how much did they
pick up the average on the post test
was
6.3 what
happened they thought they learned but
their scores didn't change well one of
the students told me in the video it
said the ball is slowly decreasing in
force they thought there was some upward
force in the ball and they thought that
was presented to them they couldn't even
correctly remember what was presented
five minutes earlier and I had sat in
the room with them and they watched the
video the thing is in science students
don't know nothing about what we trying
to teach them they actually know lots of
things through their interaction with
the world it just turns out that these
things are wrong scientifically
speaking so when you present something
the student thinks they already know it
and they don't really pay utmost
attention they don't realize that what's
being presented differs from their prior
knowledge and they just get more
confident in those things that they were
thinking beforehand so actually a clear
expository summary is worse than no
instruction at
all I mean that very seriously so so how
do you get students to engage well I
tried a different approach I put two
people in a video and I got one to voice
the common misconceptions
and then the the tutor would kind of
indicate okay that's not quite right and
they would work it out through a social
dialogue but I mean we would even
animate the misconception on the ball
without telling anyone it was a
misconception they had to work that out
through the social interaction okay so
this was the the very same setting that
every that the other students watched
the exposition video what did the
dialogue students say well no one told
me that it was clear no one told me it
was concise no one said it was easy to
understand in fact most of the time they
told me it was
confusing man maybe this
backfired so how' they go on the post
test well their scores nearly doubled to
11 out of
26 okay it's not 26 out of 26 but it's a
start and what was the
difference well after the video I asked
students to rate their mental effort how
much mental effort did you expend while
watching that
video and the students who watched the
dialogue invested significantly more
mental effort in engaging with that
presentation than students who saw only
an expository
summary so to me there's a really
important message there depending on how
you present you can change how your
audience watches and thereby how much
they
learn and I'm now applying this I've got
a YouTube channel it's called
veritasium and I've made nearly a
hundred films which have been seen over
4.5 million times throughout the world
and you know you always have to start
with the
misconceptions thank you
[Music]